===================================
VLBA Pipeline Project Status Report
===================================

:Authors: - Jared Crossley
          - Bill Cotton
:Date: 2011-06-07

The VLBA Pipeline is automated data reduction software that runs within the
Obit algorithm development system.  The pipeline is intended to create end-user
data products (images, calibration tables, plots, etc.) from non-proprietary
VLBA archival visibility data.  The pipeline will enhance the NRAO archive by
providing users with immediate access to reference images and calibrated
visibility data.

The pipeline consists of 2,500 lines of Obit (Python) code that automate:

* retrieval of raw data from the VLBA archive,
* filling, editing, calibrating, and imaging of this data,
* and generation of end-user data files including calibrated visibility
  data, images, and diagnostic plots.

Data processing is performed using a combination of AIPS and Obit routines.

Pipeline development began in the summer of 2010.  We expect pipeline operation
to begin before the end of June 2011.  We are currently collaborating with John
Benson to make the pipeline data products ready for the NRAO archive.
Ultimately, adding pipeline data products to the archive will be an automated
process.  At that point, the only interactive part of the pipeline will be
initially selecting a set of raw data files to process and validating the final
data products prior to archiving.

During the development phase we have made use of the MOJAVE survey data because
it provides a large, uniform set of continuum observations of bright sources.
All tests thus far indicate that the pipeline works robustly on these data
sets.  Pipeline processing of *all* public MOJAVE data will be relatively fast:
weeks of CPU time, and days of human-interactive startup and validation.
Beyond MOJAVE, we plan to self-calibrate and image all continuum observations
(excluding astrometry projects and projects requiring phase referencing).  As
we progress to processing less-uniform and more challenging data sets,
additional development work will be required, though we expect the relative
amount of development and testing will decrease as the project continues and
the pipeline becomes more robust.  

Two additional applications of the pipeline are worth noting:

* The pipeline could be used to process proprietary data.  This may require
  review or modification of the current data access policy, but could
  potentially open the VLBA to less experienced users.
* Walter Brisken has indicated that our pipeline also has application to VLBA
  operations.  Specifically, the pipeline can be used for: (1) quick processing
  of weekly test correlations; (2) fringe searches on fragments of projects,
  allowing the clocks to be set more accurately during correlations, and making
  greater averaging of data possible.

Bill Cotton began development work on the VLBA pipeline in the summer of 2010.
Bill laid the ground work by writing functions for editing, calibration, and
imaging.  In September, Jared Crossley joined the project.  Jared contributed
to the pipeline by adding functions for generating diagnostic plots, an HTML
project "report", a VOTable that will be used to feed pipeline products back to
the archive, and an interface for automated archive query and download.  In
addition, Jared has also contributed general improvements to the Obit system
including the development of a preliminary online documentation system and a
number of other changes that have made Obit more user- and developer-friendly.
